Page 1
Hi Mom & Dad
 
Well we finally got moved into our apartment last week. It isn’t too bad except that only a couple of the electrical outlets & lights work. We have a couple of extension cords cluttering up the rooms so that we can have lights & electricity.
 
I was really glad to hear that you are going to church Dad. I hope that you will continue to go as often as you can. I hate to hear that you are not feeling very good this spring. It sounds like you are really going to have a hard time this summer if you can’t get feeling better & the way the water situation looks. We have had a lot of rain here the past week. I haven't heard the number of inches but it rained about 4 nights out of the week. I guess we have had about 3 inches or so.

I got that check you sent cashed all right. The Elders have went to one bank for a long time & we don't even have to have any identification.

I won't need any more money until the first of the month - I shouldn't at least. I'm starting to keep track of all I spend. It really surprised me that I had to write you for that much money after my check.

Mom there is a few things I would like to have you send me if you can. I would like to have the sports jacket I bought for $30. I have the extra pants for it. My suit I got at Pullman tailors is really going downhill fast. I will be kinda glad when it is gone. It won't hold a crease & the pleats fall. I really like my new suit. After I was out here about 1 month the one pair of pants had two holes in it where I had ripped them in the car. I had them patched & it is looking pretty good.

Page 2
Also I think I have a new clip board that I bought just before I came out. If it is hard to pack you don't need to send it though.

I had a litle red booklet on English that I used in high school & if you can find it I would like to have it. We called it a "English Bible" but I don't know if that is the right title.

In my English journal there are some poems I would like to have. "If" by Ruyard Kipling is one, then one on Abraham Lincoln & it starts out "It is portentous and a thing of State that here at midnight a mourning figure ???" Then there is one called "A Friend by the side of the road" or something - I never memorized it but I would like to have a copy of it.

I was thinking about asking you to send me that "Dictionary of Thought" but I not to. In fact check & see if it is there. I loaned it to Dahl & I'm not sure if he ever gave it back. He was going to but I don't remmeber of getting it. There is no hurry on any of these things but I would like to have at least the sports jacket. The others it really doesn't matter too much.

Well I guess I better close for now. Everything is going fine - I like it a lot better here, we keep quite busy & we have a couple of families that are interested. I gave the first discussion to some college students yesterday.

I hope you can get to feeling better Dad. I'm sure it will work out with the farming but I hate to hear you are not feeling good. I want to thank you & mom for all you've done for me. I love you both very much & I hope I can develop myself to the kind of a person you will be proud to say is your sone.

Love Always
Gaylon








IF by Rudyard Kipling

If you can keep your head when all about you   
    Are losing theirs and blaming it on you,   
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,
    But make allowance for their doubting too;   
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,
    Or being lied about, don’t deal in lies,
Or being hated, don’t give way to hating,
    And yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise:
If you can dream—and not make dreams your master;   
    If you can think—and not make thoughts your aim;   
If you can meet with Triumph and Disaster
    And treat those two impostors just the same;   
If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken
    Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,
Or watch the things you gave your life to, broken,
    And stoop and build ’em up with worn-out tools:
If you can make one heap of all your winnings
    And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,
And lose, and start again at your beginnings
    And never breathe a word about your loss;
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
    To serve your turn long after they are gone,   
And so hold on when there is nothing in you
    Except the Will which says to them: ‘Hold on!’
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,   
    Or walk with Kings—nor lose the common touch,
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you,
    If all men count with you, but none too much;
If you can fill the unforgiving minute
    With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run,   
Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,   
    And—which is more—you’ll be a Man, my son!


It is portentous, and a thing of state
That here at midnight, in our little town
A mourning figure walks, and will not rest,
Near the old court-house pacing up and down.
Or by his homestead, or in shadowed yards
He lingers where his children used to play,
Or through the market, on the well-worn stones
He stalks until the dawn-stars burn away.
A bronzed, lank man! His suit of ancient black,
A famous high top-hat and plain worn shawl
Make him the quaint great figure that men love,
The prairie-lawyer, master of us all.
He cannot sleep upon his hillside now.
He is among us: -- as in times before!
And we who toss and lie awake for long
Breathe deep, and start, to see him pass the door.
His head is bowed. He thinks on men and kings.
Yea, when the sick world cries, how can he sleep?
Too many peasants fight, they know not why,
Too many homesteads in black terror weep.
The sins of all the war-lords burn his heart.
He sees the dreadnaughts scouring every main.
He carries on his shawl-wrapped shoulders now
The bitterness, the folly and the pain.
He cannot rest until a spirit-dawn
Shall come; -- the shining hope of Europe free;
The league of sober folk, the Workers' Earth,
Bringing long peace to Cornwall, Alp and Sea.
It breaks his heart that kings must murder still,
That all his hours of travail here for men
Seem yet in vain. And who will bring white peace
That he may sleep upon his hill again?

Vachel Lindsay



This MAY be the 3rd poem dad mentions in the letter:

The House by the Side of a Road
    (1890-1911)
    by Sam Walter Foss

    “He was a friend to man, and lived In a house by the side of the road.” —Homer
    There are hermit souls that live withdrawn
    In the place of their self-content;
    There are souls like stars, that dwell apart,
    In a fellowless firmament;
    There are pioneer souls that blaze the paths
    Where highways never ran—
    But let me live by the side of the road
    And be a friend to man.
    Let me live in a house by the side of the road
    Where the race of men go by—
    The men who are good and the men who are bad,
    As good and as bad as I.
    I would not sit in the scorner’s seat
    Nor hurl the cynic’s ban—
    Let me live in a house by the side of the road
    And be a friend to man.
    I see from my house by the side of the road
    By the side of the highway of life,
    The men who press with the ardor of hope,
    The men who are faint with the strife,
    But I turn not away from their smiles and tears,
    Both parts of an infinite plan—
    Let me live in a house by the side of the road
    And be a friend to man.
    I know there are brook-gladdened meadows ahead,
    And mountains of wearisome height;
    That the road passes on through the long afternoon
    And stretches away to the night.
    And still I rejoice when the travelers rejoice
    And weep with the strangers that moan,
    Nor live in my house by the side of the road
    Like a man who dwells alone.
    Let me live in my house by the side of the road,
    Where the race of men go by—
    They are good, they are bad, they are weak, they are strong,
    Wise, foolish—so am I.
    Then why should I sit in the scorner’s seat,
    Or hurl the cynic’s ban?
    Let me live in my house by the side of the road
    And be a friend to man.
