Page1
Hi Everyone

Its M-day again & we are waiting for Elder Nielsen & Christensen to get their teeth checked.

It's a lot warner now. We haven't had any trouble getting our car started since we got it fixed. It sure takes a lot of gas in this cold weather. We have had to start Elder Nielsons car with jumper cables & when it is stubborn to start we use a lot of gas just racing the motor.

It seems like I spend a lot more money than I should. I am going to try & cut down on expenses this month. Last month (4-week period) I spent $135.00. Of course I bought $18.00 worth of tape that I would not ordinarily have spent. We used the tape & have finished recording the Book of Mormon Pearl of Great Price & The D.&C.

I'm glad we were able to get it on tape. It will be nice to have 


Page 2
even after I get off my mission.

We are going to have a big conference next Sunday - Tues. - Sunday LeGrand Richards & Howard Hunter are going to be here & divide Chicago Stake & make three stakes. They are going to talk to us in a special missionary conference. Then all day Monday & Tuesday we will be in a Region Conference.

We may go to a mueseum this afternoon.

How is the apartments coming along? I hope you can keep most of them rented.

I finally got my book & this letter from the Bishop. We helped his wife get their car home after she hit a tree. She couldn't stop on slick roads. I left my boots & this letter in the car.

We saw the Museum of Science & Industry, or at lest we spent the afternoon

Page 3
trying to see parts of it. There is so much that is really fascinating that we couldn't begin to see it.

We took the records B of M D&C & P. of G.P. back to Sister Morgan. She said they cost a total of $100. We got them on tape for less than $15. I still have a couple of reels left over. We got it for $1.88 a of 2400 feet - it is pretty good tape for that price. I am now recording "The Son of God" a talk given by Pres. Edmunds entirely from the scriptures.

I guess I better close & review for our test on the study guide in conference.

Tell everyone hello for me.

Page 4
I guess I should write the Bishop but I don't know hardly what to say. I hate to write & tell him the whole mission is in a big slump. Especially when there is all the talk about increased baptisms in all the missions.

Write soon

Love Gaylon


Page 5
I got your letter today - no I haven't recieved that tape Marilyn was supposed to have spent. My recorder is all right. I cleaned the recording heads & it works a lot better. The Book of Mormon is advertisted in the Improvement Era for 50 dollars. If I find I can't use it very much I could send the tapes to Connie & Vernon. Tell Laraine I was glad to hear from her. It sounds like Greg is doing real well.

Love Gaylon



